# Wine-quality-project
To see whether human quality of tasting can be related to the chemical properties of wine. This is a final project of module called Applied Statistics, since it has 10 pages limit, we would only focus on the red wine data set, we can do white in the same way.

# Project description

Wine industry shows a recent growth spurt as social drinking is on the rise. The price of wine depends on a rather abstract concept of wine appreciation by wine tasters. Pricing of wine depends on such a volatile factor to some extent. Another key factor in wine certification and quality assessment is physicochemical tests which are laboratory- based and takes into account factors like acidity, pH level, presence of sugar and other chemical properties. For the wine market, it would be of interest if human quality of tasting can be related to the chemical properties of wine so that certification and quality assessment and assurance process is more controlled. Two data sets are available from https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Wine+Quality of which one data set is on red wine and have 1599 different varieties and the other is on white wine and has 4898 varieties. All wines are produced in a particular area of Portugal. Data are collected on 11 different properties of the wines based on chemical including density, acidity, alcohol content etc. All chemical properties of wines are continuous variables. The last column is quality, which is an ordinal variable with possible ranking from 1 (worst) to 10 (best). Each variety of wine is tasted by three independent tasters and the final rank assigned is the median rank given by the tasters. Details of the variables involving chemical properties can be obtained from the data website.

# Introduction
With the booming of wine industry, we are not only focusing ”can we have some wine?”, but ”can we have some good wine?”. In this project, we would using both supervised and unsupervised learning to predict the quality of human tasting by some chemical factors like acidity, pH level and so on. When conducting supervised learning method such as multiple linear regression, polynomial regression and multiple logistic regression, we first implement the **Principal Component Analysis(PCA)** to our data set, which can reduce the dimension of our dataset and eliminate the collinearity. By doing so, we obtain a very good data set, where each principal component are independent each other and has only four of them, which significantly reduces our calculation. In unsupervised learning, we first try the Classification Tree and Regression Tree to predict the quality of the wine, then we implement the Bagging Method and Random Forest Method as well and calculate all the accuracy rate resprctively.


# Pre-processing
At the very first beginning, what we need to do is to import our data set. When we open the data set, we found out that it is not a ”comma” separated value, but ”semi-colon” separated value. Hence when we import the csv file by ```read.csv()``` function, we need to set the parameter ```sep = ’;’``` to import our data set correctly. We named our red wine and white wine data set by Red and White respectively. Then, we need to check whether we have any missing values, an convenient way to doing so is to sum up all the missing value and found that there are no missing value any more in our data set.

In this project, we would mainly focus on the **red wine** data set, since we have 10 pages limit, and it would be so rush if we do both, so we choose to focus on red wine data set. In supervised learning, as we said before, we want to conduct the PCA first, but there is a question, how many principal component we should use? In order to solve this problem, we draw the scree plots to choose the optimal number of principal components as Fig 1.
